---
title: "JS Katas"
tags:
  - new-beginnings
    javascript
    kata
    tdd
---

I [decided]({% post_url 2020-05-21-embarking-on-a-journey %}) to try JavaScript. I was suggested to try
test-driven learning. While I was familiar with the concept
of test-driven development, I wasn't aware test-driven
learning was actually a thing until today. I was pointed
to [JS Katas](https://jskatas.org) which does exactly that.

You are expected to fix tests and in that process _learn_
the concepts as well. I wasn't really sure how the whole
test-driven _learning_ would work, but I decided to give it
a shot anyway. Picking JavaScript itself is an experiment.
What's wrong with another one?

The service has exercises for different _versions_ of
ECMAScript. One has to pick an exercise, fix it and then
move on to the next one. The objective is to `make all tests
pass, leave the assert lines unchanged!`.

Initially, I was finding it difficult to figure things out.
I was jumping between the [exercise tab](https://tddbin.com) and the [documentation
tab](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Reference). Then I found myself just going around the documentation
alone led by my curiosity. I found it difficult to bring
attention back to the JS Kata exercises.

Somehow, I managed to complete around 7 exercises. I was 
able to get the tests to pass. That was the only metric of
completion. Soon, it started to get boring and I was losing
focus and was getting easily distracted by my mind.

The next day, I managed a few more exercises. Then I started
to get distracted again. I started to feel that test-driven
learning probably didn't suit me. I took a break and went
looking for other traditional alternatives - structured
courses with a syllabus and instructed by an instructor and
which had interactive exercises with ample explanation.
I didn't want to go around digging in the documentation.
I didn't feel that was an effective way to learn anything
new.

I recalled that back in my college times, I had done research
on various programming languages and had collected a list of
online courses that I could take. At that point, my ambition
was to become a programmer. Since I was still in college,
I probably didn't look at paid solutions either. Now, the
next thing to do was to find that list of courses.
Fortunately, it didn't take me long to find the list back
from 2013. Funnily, it had courses listed from [CodeSchool](https://www.codeschool.com)
which got acquired by PluralSight in 2015. Anyway, I found
an [Introduction to Javascript](https://www.codecademy.com/learn/introduction-to-javascript) course on Codecademy from
my list. I decided to take it up. It was nice to go back to
a platform that you've been dormant for 6 years and find
your '_achievements_' all still there intact.

The course started slow, because I already had some basic
knowledge of the language. It wasn't like I was totally
ignorant of the language. It was just that I wasn't aware
of all the latest and greatest features that the language
had introduced in the past few years. Let's see how this goes.
